![](media/image1.png){width="5.497887139107611in" height="5.875in"}

IS4250 Healthcare Analytics

Health-Related Lifestyle Behaviors among Male and Female Rural-to-Urban
Migrant Workers in Shanghai, China

Chen Jiesheng (A0099515U)

Xia Jingyi (A0100125H)

**Content**

[*1. Introduction* 3](#introduction)

[*1.1 Paper Background* 3](#paper-background)

[*1.2 Literature Review* 4](#literature-review)

[*1.3 Purpose of the Paper* 4](#purpose-of-the-paper)

[*1.4 Collection and Preparation of Data*
5](#collection-and-preparation-of-data)

[*1.5 Statistical Analysis Methods* 6](#statistical-analysis-methods)

[*2. Experiment Replication and Results Comparison*
6](#experiment-replication-and-results-comparison)

[*2.1 Data Preparation for Replicating Experiments*
7](#data-preparation-for-replicating-experiments)

[*2.2 Socio-demographic characteristics of participants*
10](#socio-demographic-characteristics-of-participants)

[*2.3 Health status of migrant population*
12](#health-status-of-migrant-population)

[*2.4 Association between lifestyle score and socio-demographic
characteristics and physical and mental status*
13](#association-between-lifestyle-score-and-socio-demographic-characteristics-and-physical-and-mental-status)

[*2.5 Replicate of Experiment Plots* 16](#replicate-of-experiment-plots)

[*3. Evaluation of the Paper* 21](#evaluation-of-the-paper)

[*3.1 Challenges in the paper* 21](#challenges-in-the-paper)

[*3.2 Limitations of the paper* 22](#limitations-of-the-paper)

[*3.3 Contributions of the paper to the field of health*
22](#contributions-of-the-paper-to-the-field-of-health)

[*4. Appendix* 22](#appendix)

1. Introduction
===============

1.1 Paper Background
--------------------

This *paper Health-Related Lifestyle Behaviors among Male and Female
Rural-to-Urban Migrant Workers in Shanghai, China* is a cross-sectional
study between August and October 2012 during which lifestyle behaviors
of migrant workers participating in Shanghai are collected and studied.
Furthermore, researchers also explored the association between lifestyle
scores and contributing demographic factors such as employment, salary,
mental health, marital status, and migratory history.

The study subjects are rural-to-urban migrant workers in China,
underpinning the unprecedented urbanization movements in human history.
According to National Bureau of Statistics of China, there was a total
of 252.78 million migrant workers in 2011[^1]. By 2025, this number is
expected to increase by another 243 million.[^2]

![](media/image2.png){width="6.0in" height="3.2059306649168855in"}

Fig 1 Number of floating population/ migrant workers in China[^3]

Migrants in China form the floating population in urban areas. The
reason for leaving rural areas to take up jobs in urban area is largely
economic. As the economy is booming and coastal cities in China enjoy an
astonishing annual growth rate of over 10%, migrant workers can earn
much more income in cities than in rural areas. In general,
rural-to-urban migrant workers take up laborious manual work in cities
because they have received less education in rural areas. Fig 2 compares
education levels between urban job seekers and migrant workers. The
heavy manual work together with their lack of healthcare programs/
insurance in urban areas makes health problems a looming issue to
migrant workers.

![](media/image3.gif){width="3.9479166666666665in"
height="3.2767705599300085in"}

Fig 2 Education Attainment Comparison

Shanghai is the economic center in China, attracting 6 million migrants
annually. By studying the health status of the migrant workers in
Shanghai, researchers can shed important lights on the overall health
condition of migrant workers in China.

1.2 Literature Review
---------------------

Several previous biomedical papers have influenced and inspired the
study of this paper. In *Chronic diseases and health promotion*[^4] and
*Health factors and longevity in men and women: a 26-year follow-up
study*[^5], health-related lifestyle behaviors are found to be important
determinants of disease. In *Patterns of unhealthy behaviour in
Finland*[^6], numerous lifestyle behaviors that have impact on health
are identified: cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, physical
activity, and diet. And the concept of health scores based on assessment
of health-related lifestyle behaviors is first proposed by *Relation
between modifiable lifestyle factors and lifetime risk of heart
failur*[^7]*.* It is evident to see how previous literatures shape the
basic ideas and methods of this paper.

In recent years, several literatures have studied the prevalence of
infectious diseases, mental health, quality of life and smoking in the
migrant workers in China. However, no papers applied the study of
lifestyle behavior on migrant workers. As such, the researchers are
encouraged to fill in the gap and advance the medical study to a new
level: to identify relationships between health scores based on
lifestyle behaviors and demographic information of migrant workers.

1.3 Purpose of the Paper
------------------------

Our group identifies three major purposes of the paper:

1.  To study the health condition of rural-to-urban migrant workers, a
    group of people who might have potential health issues due to their
    job nature and a group of people who received limitation attention
    in previous biomedical studies

2.  To identify the association of health scores, determined by
    lifestyle behaviors, and demographic information such as occupation
    and diet information

1.4 Collection and Preparation of Data
--------------------------------------

From August to October 2012, the authors employed a proportionally
stratified **multistage cluster random sampling procedure** to recruit
participants of migrant workers. They chose to recruit study subjects
from four of the eight central and three of the eight fringing districts
of Shanghai, and then for each district, one community health service
center was randomly chosen. Six common migrant worker occupations are
identified: manufacturing, construction, hospitality, domestic service,
small business and recreation/ leisure. In each selected health service
center, cluster random sampling was conducted according to the workplace
and all the eligible workplaces within the service area were classified
in three strata based on their employee size. A proportionate number of
study subjects was then selected from the three strata respectively.

The study subjects are rural-to-urban migrants who were aged 18-65 years
with a residency of at least 6 months. Survey questionnaire was
individually administered under supervision. The required sample was
5800. For each volunteer, blood pressure was measured on the spot once.

In the survey, social-demographic characteristics, mental health,
physical health and lifestyle behaviors are collected.

**Social-demographic characteristics** include age, gender, occupation,
workplace scale, education attainment, marital status, accompanying
child, salary, years of residency in Shanghai, number of cities resided
in, hours worked per day, days worked per week, income, and type of
residents.

**Mental health** is collected using a Chinese version of the Symptom
Checklist-90-Revised, a self-reported mental health questionnaire.

**Physical health** includes self-reported height and weight, a history
of chronic diseases.

Six types of **lifestyle behaviors** were recorded: smoking habits,
alcohol consumption, sleep duration and quality of sleep, breakfast
patterns, frequency of regular meals and frequency of fruit and
vegetable consumption. Physical activity was not collected by the
authors because the authors thought rural-to-urban migrants “mostly
engaged in physical labor” and should by nature fulfill physical
activity requirement.

After collecting all surveys, based on the six lifestyle behaviors, the
authors applied tactics from previous literature to arrive at the 0-6
**lifestyle score**. Each lifestyle behavior was assigned 0 or 1 points.
For the overall score, subcategories are as followed: healthy (0 point),
relatively healthy (1-2 points), or unhealthy (3-6 points).

1.5 Statistical Analysis Methods
--------------------------------

The statistical analysis was carried out using SPSS software, version
17.0 and SAS software, version 9.2.

For socio-demographic characteristics and health status (mental and
physical), the authors calculated frequencies or mean values and
standard deviation by gender. **Chi-square test** was applied to
evaluate the differences of frequencies by gender; **un-paired t test**
was applied to evaluate the differences of mean values by gender.

A **multiple stepwise cumulative odds logistic regression model** was
used to assess the association between unhealthy lifestyle score and
multiple risk factors by gender. Healthy lifestyle was used as reference
in the model. Independent variables were age, occupation, education
attainment, workplace scale, accompanying child, marital status, salary,
years of residency, number of cities resided in, hours worked per day,
days worked per week, type of residence, self-reported health status,
chronic disease, blood pressure, BMI, and mental health.

A 10% significance level is applied so that results with less than 0.05
p-value are considered significant for a two-tailed alpha test.

To understand cumulative odds logistic regression model, we need to
first understand a cumulative logit. A cumulative logit is defined as:
![](media/image4.png){width="4.604166666666667in"
height="0.5416666666666666in"}

This is the log-odds of two cumulative probabilities, one less-than and
the other greater-than type. This measures how likely the response is to
be in category j or below versus in a category higher than j. In this
paper, categories of j are sub-categories of lifestyle scores: healthy
(0 point), relatively healthy (1-2) or unhealthy (3-6 points). It is
cumulative because the numerator include all categories less than j.

The cumulative probabilities are given by:
*P*(*Y*≤*j*)=exp(*αj*+*βx*)/(1+exp(*αj*+*βx*)). In R, one can use glm()
function to perform logistic regression, get confidence interval using
confint() function and cumulative odds ratios (COR) can be calculated by
applying exp(coef(&lt;logistic regreassion results&gt;)).

2. Experiment Replication and Results Comparison
================================================

Experiments in the paper group statistical analysis results into three
categories as follows. We use the dataset in *Health-related lifestyle
behaviors among male and female rural-to-urban migrant workers in
Shanghai, China.xls*, present in
[*https://GitHub.com/chenjiesheng226/is4250/tree/tut1/project*](https://github.com/chenjiesheng226/is4250/tree/tut1/project)
, and *Codebook.xls* also on the GitHub to replicate the experiments.
The software used is R-studio. Datasets used in replicated experiments
have some discrepancies with the original datasets used by the authors.
Differences include missing values for physical health information such
as chronic diseases and possible different records unidentified. As a
result, discrepancies should be expected between the original results
and our replicate results. For a full reference of the replication
source code, you are welcome to refer to the appendix or simply browse
the GitHub.

2.1 Data Preparation for Replicating Experiments
------------------------------------------------

Convert excel data file into .csv format. Read all data from csv file in
R.

OriginalHealthData &lt;- read.csv("C:/Users/ASUS/Documents/Health
Data.csv")

healthData &lt;- dplyr::select(OriginalHealthData, everything())

Rename 24 data attributes according to codebook provided.

(Detected some discrepency and several missing attributes such as
self-reported health status)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, Occupation = b1)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, WorkplaceScale = b2)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, Gender = q102)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, Age = q103)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, MaritalStatus = q104)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, EducationAttainment = q105)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, AccompanyChild = q106)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, Salary = q107)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, YearsAsMigrant = q108a1)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, NumberOfCitiesResidedIn =
q108a2)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DailyWorkingHours = q108b)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, WeeklyWorkingDays = q108c1)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, TypeOfResidence = q108c2)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, HundredCigarettes = q410)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, CurrentSmoker = q411)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, NumberOfCigarettesPerDay =
q412)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DrinkingFrequency = q431)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, AlcoholDrinksPerDay = q432)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, SixOrMoreDrinksFrequency =
q433)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DailySleepingHours = q444)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, SleepingQuality = q446)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DailyBreakfast = q450)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DailyFruitsVegetables = q451)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::rename(healthData, DailyRegularMeals = q452)

Compute Mental Health Score:

-   Read self-assessment scores of q201-q290, 90 questions from
    Symptom Checklist-90-Revised.

-   Each question carries 1-5 marks, representing none, mild, moderate,
    severe, extreme.

-   Sum up 90 scores

mentalChecklist &lt;- dplyr::select(OriginalHealthData, contains("q2"))

mentalChecklist &lt;- mentalChecklist %&gt;% transmute(MentalHealth =
q201 + q202 + q203 + q204 +q205 + q206 + q207 + q208 +q209 + q210 + q211
+ q212 + q213 + q214 + q215 + q216 + q217 + q218 + q219 + q220 + q221 +
q222 + q223 + q224 + q225 + q226 + q227 + q228 + q229 + q230 + q231 +
q232 + q233 + q234 + q235 + q236 + q237 + q238 + q239 + q240 + q241 +
q242 + q243 + q244 + q245 + q246 + q247 + q248 + q249 + q250 + q251 +
q252 + q253 + q254 + q255 + q256 + q257 + q258 + q259 + q260 + q261 +
q262 + q263 + q264 + q265 + q266 + q267 + q268 + q269 + q270 + q271 +
q272 + q273 + q274 + q275 + q276 + q277 + q278 + q279 + q280 + q281 +
q282 + q283 + q284 + q285 + q286 + q287 + q288 + q289 + q290)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::bind\_cols(healthData, mentalChecklist)

Compute Drinking Behaviour Score

-   3 question

    -   Frequency of drinking

    -   How many drinks containing alcohol do you have on a typical day
        when you are drinking?

    -   How often do you have six or more drinks on one occasion?

-   Each question carries 1-5 marks, representing degree of alcohol
    consumption

-   Sum up 3 scores

drinkingStatus &lt;- dplyr::select(healthData, DrinkingFrequency,
AlcoholDrinksPerDay, SixOrMoreDrinksFrequency)

drinkingStatus &lt;- drinkingStatus %&gt;% transmute(AlcoholConsumption
= DrinkingFrequency + AlcoholDrinksPerDay + SixOrMoreDrinksFrequency -
3)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::bind\_cols(healthData, drinkingStatus)

**Further process data (mainly Categorization)**

-   Education Attainment

    -   4 catrgories: Elementary or lower, Junior high school, High
        school, College or above

-   Gender

    -   swap sequence into 2 categories: Male, Female

-   Number of Accompanying Children

    -   3 categories: No children, Cohabitating children, Children
        residing elsewhere

-   Salary

    -   4 categories: &lt;1500RMB, 1500-2500RMB,
        2500-3500RMB, &gt;=3500RMB

-   Number of Cities Resided in

    -   2 categories: 1-2, &gt;=3

-   Daily Working Hours

-   Weekly Working Days

-   BMI:

    -   BMI = weight(kg) / (height(m)\^2)

    -   3 categories: &lt; 18.5; &gt;= 18.5 and &lt; 24; &gt;=24

-   Mental Health

    -   2 categories: if MentalHealth score &lt;= 160, Normal; if
        MentalHealth score &gt; 160, Abnormal

-   Smoking

    -   Current Smoker

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if smoked in the past 30 days, Unhealthy; else Healthy

-   Drinking

    -   Hazardous Alcohol Consumption

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if Alcohol Consumption Score &gt;=4 for Male or Alcohol
        Consumption Score &gt;=3 for Female, Unhealthy; else Healthy

-   Daily Sleeping Hours

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if Daily Sleeping Hours 7-9 hours/night, Health; else Unhealthy

-   Sleeping Quality

    -   2 categories: 1-2 Good/Fair; 3-4 Poor/Very Poor

-   Daily Breakfasts

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if almost Daily Breakfasts, Health; else Unhealthy

-   Daily Fruits and Vegetables Consumption

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if almost Daily Fruits and Vegetables Consumption, Health; else
        Unhealthy

-   Daily Regular Meals

    -   2 categories: Unhealthy, Healthy

    -   if almost Daily Regular Meals, Health; else Unhealthy

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, EducationAttainmentX =
ifelse(EducationAttainment == 1, 1, ifelse(EducationAttainment == 2, 2,
ifelse(EducationAttainment == 3, 3, 4))))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, BMI =
weight/(height/100)/(height/100))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, BMIX = ifelse(BMI &lt; 18.5,
1, ifelse(BMI &lt; 24, 2, 3)))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, GenderX = ifelse(Gender == 1,
2, 1))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, AgeX = ifelse(Age &lt;= 32,
1, 2))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, AccompanyChildX =
ifelse(AccompanyChild == 1, 1, ifelse(AccompanyChild == 4, 3, 2)))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, SalaryX = ifelse(Salary == 1,
1, ifelse(Salary == 2, 2, ifelse(Salary == 3, 3, 4))))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, NumberOfCitiesResidedInX =
ifelse(NumberOfCitiesResidedIn &lt;= 2, 1, 2))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, DailyWorkingHoursX =
ifelse(DailyWorkingHours == 8, 1, ifelse(DailyWorkingHours &lt; 8, 2,
ifelse(DailyWorkingHours &lt; 11, 3, 4))))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, WeeklyWorkingDaysX =
ifelse(WeeklyWorkingDays &lt;= 4, 1, ifelse(WeeklyWorkingDays == 5, 2,
ifelse(WeeklyWorkingDays == 6, 3, 4))))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, MentalHealthX =
ifelse(MentalHealth &lt;= 160, 1, 2))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, CurrentSmokerX =
ifelse(CurrentSmoker == 1 | is.na(CurrentSmoker), 0, 1))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, HazardousDrinkX =
ifelse(AlcoholConsumption &gt;= 4, 1, ifelse(GenderX == 2 &
AlcoholConsumption == 3, 1, 0)))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, DailySleepingHoursX =
ifelse(DailySleepingHours &lt; 7 | DailySleepingHours &gt; 9, 1, 0))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, SleepingQualityX =
ifelse(SleepingQuality &lt;= 2, 0, 1))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, DailyBreakfastX =
ifelse(DailyBreakfast == 1, 0, 1))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, DailyFruitsVegetablesX =
ifelse(DailyFruitsVegetables == 1, 0, 1))

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, DailyRegularMealsX =
ifelse(DailyRegularMeals == 1, 0, 1))

**Compute Lifestyle Behaviour Score**

-   6 factors: CurrentSmoker, HazardousDrink, DailySleepingHours,
    DailyBreakfast, DailyFruitsVegetables, DailyRegularMeals

-   1 score for every Unhealthy Behavior

-   Sum: 0, Healthy; 1-2 Relatively Healthy; 3-6 Unhealthy

lifestyleScore &lt;- dplyr::select(healthData, CurrentSmokerX,
HazardousDrinkX, DailySleepingHoursX, DailyBreakfastX,
DailyFruitsVegetablesX, DailyRegularMealsX)

lifestyleScore &lt;- lifestyleScore %&gt;% transmute(Score =
CurrentSmokerX + HazardousDrinkX + DailySleepingHoursX + DailyBreakfastX
+ DailyFruitsVegetablesX + DailyRegularMealsX)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::bind\_cols(healthData, lifestyleScore)

healthData &lt;- dplyr::mutate(healthData, ScoreX = ifelse(Score == 0,
1, ifelse(Score == 1 | Score == 2, 2, 3)))

healthDataTbl &lt;- data.table(healthData)

2.2 Socio-demographic characteristics of participants
-----------------------------------------------------

Chi-square test is used to test any differences of socio-demographic
characteristics due to gender. An example of the code snippet applying
Chi-square test in R is:

Age &lt;- table(healthDataTbl\$AgeX, healthDataTbl\$GenderX)

dimnames(Age) &lt;- list(AgeX = c("&lt;=32","&gt;32"), GenderX =
c("Male","Female"))

Age

chisq.test(Age,correct=F)

The above code snippet is a chi-square test on the attribute Age.

**Table 1.Comparison of Socio-demographic characteristics of migrant
workers by gender**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variables                     **Original results from the paper**   **Replicated results**
                                                                      
  Age (year), mean±SD                                                 
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------ --------------- ------------- ------------- ------------------
                                Male                                  Female

  Age (years)                                                         

  ≤32                           1237                                  1408

  ≥32                           1574                                  1265

  Occupation                                                          

  Manufacturing                 1406                                  1107

  Construction                  677                                   92

  Hospitality                   148                                   237

  Domestic Service              144                                   430

  Small Business                232                                   403

  Recreation/ leisure           204                                   404

  Workplace scale                                                     

  Large                         851                                   649

  Moderate                      1101                                  841

  Small                         859                                   1183

  Education attainment                                                

  Elementary or lower           393                                   611

  Junior high school            1409                                  1380

  High school                   777                                   543

  College                       232                                   139

  Marital status                                                      

  Married                       2042                                  1977

  Single                        700                                   631

  Cohabitating                  39                                    47

  Divorced or widowed           30                                    18

  Accompanying child                                                  

  No children                   849                                   796

  Cohabiting children           878                                   968

  Children residing elsewhere   1084                                  909

  Salary                                                              

  &lt;1500 RMB                  168                                   317

  1500-2500 RMB                 1036                                  1492

  2500-3500 RMB                 1071                                  628

  ≥3500 RMB                     536                                   236

  Years of residency                                                  

  &lt;1                         **365 **                              **370 **

  1-5                           **1165 **                             **1267 **

  ≥5                            **1281 **                             **1036 **

  Number of city stayed                                               

  1-2                           1859                                  2207

  ≥3                            952                                   464

  Daily working hours                                                 

  &lt;8                         18                                    62

  =8                            1273                                  1310

  8-11                          1066                                  615

  ≥11                           454                                   686

  Weekly working days                                                 

  ≤4                            57                                    99

  5                             805                                   759

  6                             1046                                  1201

  7                             903                                   614

  Type of residence                                                   

  Collective dormitory          1040                                  515

  Renting with others           324                                   312

  Renting as a family           897                                   1400

  Renting alone                 430                                   324

  Owning a living place         120                                   122
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 1 compares the experiment results from the original paper with our
replication. Discrepancies are highlighted in bold. It can be noted that
discrepancies are identified in two socio-demographic characteristics:
Years of residency, Daily working hours. For Years of residency, the
relevant data is missing so we cannot replicate the experiment results.
For Daily working hours, p-value differs such that it is significant in
our replication, but insignificant in the paper. We actually think our
results are more likely since the p-value of 0.933 in the original paper
is also far from the other p-values. Nonetheless, possible sources of
differences could be the difference in dataset or the difference in
software used for experiments. In the original paper, the authors
applied SPSS and SAS for statistical analysis.

Source codes used in the replication of experiments are included in the
appendix. You can also refer to a md file on the GitHub
([*https://GitHub.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/project\_code.md*](https://github.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/project_code.md)
) to review the replication results.

2.3 Health status of migrant population
---------------------------------------

In this section, the author applies the same Chi-square as the previous
section, so code snippet is omitted here.

**Table 2. Comparison of physical and mental status and lifestyle
behavior of migrants by gender**

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variables                                    **Original results from the paper**   **Replicated results**
  -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------ --------------- ------------- ------------- --------------
                                               Male                                  Female
                                                                                     
                                               (n=2811)                              n=2673)

  **Health status**                                                                  

  Self-reported health status                                                        

  Good                                         **2194 **                             **2084 **

  Fair                                         **585 **                              **563 **

  Poor                                         **32 **                               **26 **

  Chronic diseases                             **266 **                              **183 **

  Abnormal blood pressure                      **401 **                              **144 **

  BMI                                                                                

  Underweight                                  **114 **                              **232 **

  Normal                                       **1775 **                             **1880 **

  Overweight/ obesity                          **922 **                              **561 **

  **Mental state**                                                                   

  Normal                                       **2501 **                             **2369 **

  Abnormal                                     **310 **                              **304 **

  **Lifestyle behaviors**                                                            

  Smoking status                                                                     

  Previous smoker/ never smoked                1489                                  2611

  Current smoker                               1322                                  62

  Alcohol consumption                                                                

  Nonhazardous alcohol use                     **1979 **                             **2456 **

  Hazardous alcohol use                        **832 **                              **217 **

  Sleep                                                                              

  7-9 hours/ night                             **2166 **                             **2107 **

  &lt;7 or &gt;9 hours/night                   **645 **                              **566 **

  Good or fair quality sleep                   2474                                  2341

  Poor or very poor quality sleep              337                                   332

  Diet                                                                               

  Almost daily breakfast                       2302                                  2156

  Almost daily fruit & vegetable consumption   2101                                  2149

  Almost daily regular meals                   2398                                  2244

  Lifestyle score                                                                    

  Healthy                                      640                                   1386

  Relatively healthy                           1545                                  1000

  Unhealthy                                    626                                   287
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Differences between original experiments and the replicated experiment
results are highlighted in bold. Generally, the differences are very
small within 5%. This could be due to differences software used
conducting the experiments.

2.4 Association between lifestyle score and socio-demographic characteristics and physical and mental status
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here, the authors apply the logistic regression, get the cumulative odds
ratio, calculate 95% confidence interval and filter significant findings
based on whether p-value is less than 5%. A code snippet on getting all
the data in Table 3 is provided below:

Male &lt;- dplyr::filter(healthData, GenderX == 1)

AGE1 &lt;- cut(Male\$AgeX, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5), labels =
c("&lt;=32","&gt;32"))

OCCUPATION1 &lt;- cut(Male\$Occupation, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5,5.5,
6.5), labels = c("Manufacturing", "Construction", "Hospitality",
"DomesticSservices", "SmallBusiness", "Recreation/Leisures"))

WORKPLACESCALE1 &lt;- cut(Male\$WorkplaceScale, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5),
labels = c("Large","Moderate","Small"))

EDUCATIONATTAINMENT1 &lt;- cut(Male\$EducationAttainmentX, c(0.5,
1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5), labels =
c("Elementary/Lower","JuniorHigh","HighSchool","College"))

MARITALSTATUS1 &lt;- cut(Male\$MaritalStatus, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5),
labels = c("Married", "Single","Cohabitating","Divorced/Widowed"))

ACCOMPANYCHILD1 &lt;- cut(Male\$AccompanyChildX, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5),
labels = c("NoChildren","Cohabitate","ResideElsewhere"))

SALARY1 &lt;- cut(Male\$SalaryX, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5), labels =
c("&lt;1500RMB","1500-2500RMB","2500-3500RMB","&gt;=3500RMB"))

NUMBEROFCITIESRESIDEDIN1 &lt;- cut(Male\$NumberOfCitiesResidedInX,
c(0.5, 1.5,2.5), labels = c("1-2", "&gt;=3"))

DAILYWORKINGHOURS1 &lt;- cut(Male\$DailyWorkingHoursX, c(0.5,
1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5), labels = c("=8","&lt;8","8-11","&gt;=11"))

WEEKLYWORKINGDAYS1 &lt;- cut(Male\$WeeklyWorkingDaysX, c(0.5,
1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5), labels = c("&lt;=4","5","6","7"))

RESIDENCE1 &lt;- cut(Male\$TypeOfResidence, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5,4.5,5.5),
labels = c("CollectiveDormitory", "Rent(with others)", "Rent(family)",
"Rent(alone)", "OwnLivingPlace"))

BMI1 &lt;- cut(Male\$BMIX, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5,3.5), labels =
c("Underweight", "NormalWeight", "Overweight"))

MENTALHEALTH1 &lt;- cut(Male\$MentalHealthX, c(0.5, 1.5,2.5), labels =
c("Normal", "Abnormal"))

test1 &lt;- glm(ScoreX\~ AGE1 + OCCUPATION1 + WORKPLACESCALE1 +
EDUCATIONATTAINMENT1 + MARITALSTATUS1 + ACCOMPANYCHILD1 + SALARY1 +
NUMBEROFCITIESRESIDEDIN1 + DAILYWORKINGHOURS1 + WEEKLYWORKINGDAYS1 +
RESIDENCE1 + BMI1 + MENTALHEALTH1, data = Male)

summary(test1)

ci1 &lt;- confint(test1)

exp(cbind(COR = coef(test1), ci1))

**Table 3. Comparison of multiple stepwise cumulative odds logistic
regression of lifestyle score with socio-demographic characteristics and
physical and mental status for male **

  Independent variables   Male
  ----------------------- --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ------------
                          **Results from Original Paper**
                          COR
  Occupation              
  Manufacturing           1.0
  Construction            1.216
  Hospitality             1.806
  Domestic service        0.849
  Small business          1.183
  Recreation/leisure      3.248
  Work place scale        
  Large                   1.0
  Moderate                0.965
  Small                   1.422
  Hours worked per day    
  &lt;8                   0.952
  =8                      1.0
  8-11                    1.074
  ≥11                     1.533
  Mental status           
  Normal                  1.0
  Abnormal                3.105

The table three compares original experiment results for male migrant
workers with our replicating experiment results for male migrant
workers. Only several independent variables are listed because in the
original experiment, the authors apply 10% significance level for a
two-tailed test, and to entering effect, p-value needs to be less than
5% threshold. And the original paper also did not provide any experiment
results for independent variables not entering into effect, so we do not
include any other less significant results. (But they will be present in
appendix and on GitHub).

The above table has discrepancies in terms of COR (Cumulative Odds
Ratio), 95% Confidence Interval and P-value. This is expected because of
two reasons: 1) the dataset used for replicating experiments is not the
exact dataset used in the original experiment: some of the data fields
like physical health status are missing 2) the original analysis was
conducted using SPSS and SAS, while replicating experiments adopt R in
our case. There could be software domain difference in terms of the way
logistic regression works for minor differences. Nevertheless, the
replication is still valuable in the sense that the ranking of COR
within each independent variable still coincide with the original
experiment results. For example, original experiments show highest COR
for “Recreation/leisure” occupation (COR = 3.248) and lowest COR for
“Domestic Service” (COR = 0.849). This coincides with the replicated
experiment results with “Recreation/leisure” having the highest COR (COR
= 1.389) and “Domestic Service” having the lowest COR (COR = 0956).
Similarly, the p-values are also more or less comparable: when original
papers indicate a significant p-value of less than 5%, the replicated
experiments show a less than 5% p-value.

A point to notice for the multiple stepwise cumulative odds ratio is
that within each independent variables such as Occupation or Mental
status, there will be a sub-category with COR = 1.0. This indicates that
the software uses that particular sub-category as a reference level and
calculates CORs for other sub-categories relative to the value.

Likewise, a comparison between original experiments and replicated
results for female migrant workers are shown in the below table: table
4.

**Table 4. Comparison of Multiple stepwise cumulative odds logistic
regression of lifestyle score with socio-demographic characteristics and
physical and mental status for female**

  Independent variables          Female
  ------------------------------ --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ------------
                                 **Results from Original Paper**
                                 COR
  Occupation                     
  Manufacturing                  1.0
  Construction                   1.043
  Hospitality                    1.675
  Domestic service               1.657
  Small business                 1.556
  Recreation/leisure             5.563
  Marital Status                 
  Married                        1.0
  Single                         2.023
  Cohabitating                   1.564
  Divorced/ widowed              1.533
  Salary                         
  &lt;1500 RMB                   1.0
  1500-2500 RMB                  0.817
  2500-3000 RMB                  0.822
  ≥3500 RMB                      1.618
  Number of cities experienced   
  1-2                            1.0
  ≥3                             1.311
  Hours worked per day           
  &lt;8                          1.296
  =8                             1.0
  8-11                           1.426
  ≥11                            1.287
  Mental status                  
  Normal                         1.0
  Abnormal                       2.566

Just as the comparison for male in table 3, in table 4, even though the
exact values differ between original experiments and replicated
experiments, the order of ranking within each independent variable is
consistent.

2.5 Replicate of Experiment Plots
---------------------------------

The original paper does not include any experiment plot but three tables
summarizing the results of statistical analysis. The three tables are
exactly replicated in the previous section. Nonetheless, we feel that
the original paper could benefit from inclusion of several plots to
express the authors’ ideas. Therefore, we include our plots in this
paper. The complete replication of the paper’s statistical analysis and
experiment plots is included in appendix.

![](media/image5.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 3. Density Graph of Lifestyle Score by Gender

Fig 3 shows the direct view of density distribution of lifestyle score
in male and female migrants respectively. It is not hard to find
siginificant difference across the gender that female migrant workers
have a siginificantly larger percentage of people getting 0 for
lifestyle score, which in the paper represents healthy lifestyle
behaviors.

![](media/image6.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 4. Lifestyle Score Composition Bar Chart by Gender

In Fig 4, a detailed bar chart showning lifestyle score composition
compares male and female migrant workers directly. Male migrant workers
have lower percentage of people classified as unhealthy (lifestyle score
= 0), higher percentage of people classified as relatively healthy
(lifestyle score from 1 to 2) and as unhealthy (lifestyle score from 3
to 6).

Next, two selcted plots showing significant risk factors influencing
cumulative odds ratios (COR) for male and femals are displayed below.

![](media/image7.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 5. COR against Six Occupations for male migrant workers

Fig 5 shows that male migrant workers in recreation/ leisure industry
are the most likely to have unhealthy lifestyle behaviors than their
counterparts in other industry as the replicated experiment results
suggest, followed by migrants working in hospitality industry.

![](media/image8.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 6. COR against Six Occupations for Female Migrant Workers

The same trend shows up in female migrant workers and again females
working in recreation/ leisure sector and hospitality industry are more
related to unhealthy lifestyle.

![](media/image9.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 7. COR against Daily Working Hours for Male Migrant Workers

Fig 7 shows that male migrant workers working over 11 hours a day are
the most likely to have unhealthy lifestyle behaviors than others.

![](media/image10.png){width="6.0in" height="4.285714129483814in"}

Fig 8. COR against Salary for Female Migrant Workers

Fig 8 shows that female migrant workers earning over 3500 RMB monthly
are the most likely group within females to have unhealthy lifestyle
behaviors.

A complete set of the experiment plots can be found on our GitHub
([*https://GitHub.com/chenjiesheng226/is4250/tree/tut1/project*](https://github.com/chenjiesheng226/is4250/tree/tut1/project)
).

3. Evaluation of the Paper
==========================

3.1 Challenges in the paper
---------------------------

The major challenge faced by the authors is to conceive and design the
ideas of the experiment conducted which required the authors to put
together bits and pieces from all over the place: lifestyle behaviors,
health conditions, socio-demographic or other risk factors, and
lifestyle scores. The statistical analysis that follows is a piece of
cake once the experiment is designed.

In addition, authors of the paper faced some challenges in terms of
collecting and preparing data from rural-to-urban migrant workers.
Collecting a 13-page survey questionnaire for about 5800 participants
requires considerable efforts, let alone the efforts to select the most
representative sample from the migrant population. During the survey,
some migrant workers had difficulty completing the questionnaire due to
their limited years of education. As such, the authors need to provide
assistance to them.

3.2 Limitations of the paper
----------------------------

The paper suffers from three major limitations:

1)  The authors collected lifestyle data only from migrant workers not
    from non-migrant Shanghaiese residents. The implication is that no
    comparisons can be drawn before these two groups.

2)  Self-reported lifestyle information in combination with
    physician-diagnosed chronic diseases may have resulted in some
    misclassifications and information bias.

3)  The study is cross-sectional in nature, resulting in only
    association was drawn, not the causation. In order to better
    understand the causation between health and risk factors,
    longitudinal studies should be considered.

3.3 Contributions of the paper to the field of health
-----------------------------------------------------

The paper is the first comprehensive study which strives to find
association between lifestyle behaviors and health conditions in a
population of rural-to-urban migrant workers of China. Previous
literatures were concerned with the prevalence of infectious diseases,
mental health, quality of life and smoking in the migrant workers of
China. Nevertheless, there is a shortage of healthcare papers on this
population in China due to the lack of credible data sources. On the
other hand, migrant workers in China are important healthcare research
subjects because 1) the number is gigantic in magnitude: about 250
million in 2011, and 2) they are susceptible to health problems like
chronic diseases, physical and mental health problems due to their
largely physical and manual work nature. In light of this, the paper is
a forerunner in discussing health related issues with the migrant
workers in China.

The paper is instrumental in directing possible future studies. Firstly,
a comparison of health status between city residents and migrant workers
can shed lights on healthcare inequality across the two groups in China.
Secondly, longitudinal studies using the same lifestyle data and
approaches will be helpful to identify causal relationship between
health and lifestyle behaviors in general.

4. Appendix
===========

All source codes are available at
[*https://github.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/Project/project\_code.Rmd*](https://github.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/Project/project_code.Rmd)

Experiment results and plots are available at
[*https://github.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/Project/project\_code.md*](https://github.com/xiajingyi/IS4250/blob/master/Project/project_code.md)

[^1]: National Bureau of Statistics of China (2012): "Statistical
    Communiqué on the 2011 National Economic and Social Development"
    [*http://www.stats.gov.cn/english/NewsEvents/201202/t20120222\_26575.html*](http://www.stats.gov.cn/english/NewsEvents/201202/t20120222_26575.html)
    .

[^2]: Shanghai, Geoff Dyer in (2008-03-23). [*"China braced for wave of
    urban
    migrants"*](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c11a84ca-f902-11dc-bcf3-000077b07658.html). *Financial
    Times*. [*ISSN*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Serial_Number) [*0307-1766*](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0307-1766).

[^3]: Statistical data are adapted from Zai Liang’s presentation in the
    United Nations in 2012, titled Recent Migration Trends in China:
    Geographic and Demographic Aspects and Development Implications, as
    quoting the Tabulation on the Population Census of China in 1982,
    1990, 2000 and 2010, published by China’s National Bureau of
    Statistics.

[^4]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2013) Chronic diseases
    and health promotion. Available:

    *http://www.cdc.gov/chronicdisease/overview/index.htm.*

[^5]: Carlsson AC, Theobald H, Wandell PE (2010) Health factors and
    longevity in men and women: a 26-

    year follow-up study. European journal of epidemiology 25: 547–551.
    doi: 10.1007/s10654-010-9472-2

    PMID: 20623324

[^6]: Laaksonen M, Prattala R, Karisto A (2001) Patterns of unhealthy
    behaviour in Finland. Eur J Public

    Health 11: 294–300. PMID: 11582610

[^7]: Djousse L, Driver JA, Gaziano JM (2009) Relation between
    modifiable lifestyle factors and lifetime risk of heart failure.
    JAMA: J Am Med Assoc 302: 394–400.
